>> Maximiliano Firtman: Let's
create the classes,
including the one that will use the mixin,
okay?
So, for that, I'm going to
create another JavaScript file,
I can call this classes.js.
I know if you're coming from Java or
C# it looks so dirty.
We're going to create two classes,
one for the todo item,
one todo, and then another class
that is the list of todos,
the list of items, okay, two classes.
In two classes, these are two classes,
they are not so big,
so I think that we can just
put them together in one file.
It's not a big deal,
we don't need to follow Java guidelines.
In Java, every class should
be in a separate file, okay?
But this is not Java,
we are in JavaScript.
So, we can create the class
TodoItem that will
just include a text,
it's just a text for now.
Later, you can add more properties,
okay, but for now, it's just a text.
I'm going to just save my text in
a property, and I will use equals (other),
return this.text = other.text,
what is this?
This is actually very similar, not 100%
to the value object pattern, I'm sure,
if you remember that one.
Actually, if I'm adding
twice the same todo, so
I need to get lunch and
then I add again get lunch.
It's the same action, right?
So I shouldn't add it again,
does that make sense?
So we can kind of think on the value
object, like the chudo text,
it's a value object, I shouldn't have
duplicates, it doesn't make any sense.
Have lunch, is have lunch so I shouldn't
have two have lunch, that makes sense.
So that's why it's just
a equals method that will
check if my text is equal to another todo.
And if it's like that, then I'm not
going to add it to the list, yeah.
>> Speaker 1: In a situation like this,
I would typically reach for
the set data type.
I assume you're not using that just
cuz it's a teaching example, or
are there other considerations?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: There are other
concepts, what happens with the set?
So, if I have let's do this I have a set,
new set.
And then I say, S, I'm going to
add a new object with a text A.
Then I'm going to add
another object with a text A.
What happens with that,
will it add it or not?
>> Speaker 2: It will add it.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It will add it,
why?
Because it's a different object,
it's a different leader,
even if it has the same text.
Value object the design pattern
is actually solving that problem.
It's actually saying, okay, so yeah,
we are talking about two different objects
but the values inside are the same.
It's a different object but because
the values inside are the same we should
treat them as the same object, even if
they are not the same object, okay?
Cool, so, that's the TodoItem, actually.
It's pretty simple,
it just has one property,
constructor receiving the property, and
the equals that we will use later for
emulating this Value object pattern.
Now let's go into the TodoList.
So the TodoList will include all the data.
And I'm going to set my data as
a set as well, I can use an array.
By the way, do you all know what
this syntax is, the hash prefix?
>> Speaker 3: To make it a private.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It's a private
property, a private field, actually,
that's a term in ECMAscript,
in JavaScript, so that means it's private,
I cannot access data from the outside.
So I'm gonna say it's a new set.
And then I can, get because from
the outside, maybe I wanna get
the items at some point,
I'm going to create the property with
the getter called items,and it
will just return this.data.
Remember to add the hash.
So now I can access from the outside,
you may be thinking,
well, why don't you create
the public property directly?
Well, it's a good design pattern to
keep separate the public interface
from the data itself of in the future,
in the future, I may want to change this.
So in the future,
I may want to say, well, maybe.
I need to go and grab the data first
from a database, I don't know, whatever.
So for future proof,
it's better to create the getter.
Of course, that by the way, when you're
doing this from the outside, you create
a new TodoList something like this, and
then you just call items as a property.
Just in case you haven't
played with getters,
it's not even if it's a function,
I'm treating it as a field as a property,
and it's going to execute the function,
and the function returns the data.
Okay, make sense?
Cool now, this is a TodoList, this is
the list that will hold all my data.
I don't want to have multiple instances.
At least this web app at this point.
It doesn't contain separate list
producer or work and personal stuff.
It's just one TodoList, okay?
One and only one, because it's one and
only one I don't want
anyone to create a new TodoList
add some elements to the list and
then if you create a new one it's empty.
So I want it to be one and
only one so it's a candidate for
a Singleton, does that make sense?
So I want to apply Singleton
to the to the TodoList.
I only want one TodoList,
I don't need more than one.
If someone can create another one,
it's actually a problem.
Okay, so if you remember from the slides,
when I was explaining Singleton,
I mentioned that the simple.
Simplest way to implement the Singleton,
just create an object literal.
But here I'm going to use a different
approach, it's a class, okay?
So we will try to see how one way,
because there are JavaScript,
there are always many ways
to solve the same problem.
One way to implement my Singleton.
So we can kind of following, in case you
have ever played with Singleton in Java,
I'm going to start copying the Java part,
and then we will get out of the Java way.
So for that, I can create a static
property called instance that
it wants to start as null
in modern JavaScript.
We can also use the static prefix to
specify that a property is static,
which means it's a class field,
not an instance field.
So there will be one
instance per TodoList, okay?
Then I'm going to create a static
in it block code that is also new.
In ECMAScript, that that code will be
executed whenever the class is parsed.
When the class is parsed, even if you
are not creating any object for the class,
the static code block will be executed.
And it will be executed
only once per project, for
web app execution So in this case,
I will create a new to the list.
So this is creating the actual instance
and saving that as a static property.
Then I will need a method get instance.
I mean, I don't need the getter,
but I can just access the instance.
But I think just having it
together is a good idea.
If you see the code, this is similar
on how you implement this in Java.
It's called instant,
getInstance, it's the same idea.
But I still have a problem because, yeah,
what's the idea,
now I can create here a variable and
say my todoList = TodoList.getInstance,
right?
That's idea of creating a static method.
So this is going to execute this method,
okay?
Okay, cool,
if I create another todoList and
call getInstance,
I'm still getting the same todoList.
Do you all follow that?
So every time I'm calling get.Instance,
I'm getting the one and
only instance available.
What's the problem that
we still have here?
I can create a new one like this and
what happens if I do this?
Am I getting the same instance or
a different one?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: A different one,
because I cannot not force
the class to avoid the execution.
But something that we can do
is create a constructor and
here we can throw an error, saying,
hey hey, Use TodoList
get.Instance() to access the list.
So we can throw an error.
Now, no one can create a new option.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
any questions?
It is not ready yet.
>> Speaker 3: Does constructor have to
be after a new todoList and the static?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So you mentioned
about the order, it doesn't matter.
I mean, if your brain is happier
with putting it like this, but
the order doesn't matter.
So, but
let's put it within Singleton anyway.
However, if I try this,
it's not gonna work, why?
Because no one can create a new instance.
Not even myself in the static code block.
So when I'm trying to create the instance,
the one and only instance,
it will throw an error.
So something a little hacky,
but yeah, it is what it is.
I can just check.
If I do have in a static instance so
basically this will try just let's
try to follow what's going on here so
the first time you execute you're the.
The web app, the instance is null, okay?
So then the static code block
is going to be executed, and
this one is creating a new todoList so
it's creating an instance.
When it's inflating this object,
it goes through the constructor.
And the constructor says,
do we already have an instance?
No, it's null, because it's null,
it's not going to throw the error.
It will let me create the instance and
now I will save that instance in
my static variable, makes sense?
So it works.
Next time I'm trying to create a new one.
Now, instance does exist, so
I throw in the error,
does that make sense?
I mean, it looks either hacky,
but that that's a way.
I mean, simply I should create an object,
a literal object, but
it's a way to still use classes and
all the advantages of classes, but
in this case we are forcing
a real Singleton.
By the way,
right now this class has a Singleton.
Let's remove the candidate.
And remember that we also
wanted to apply the mixin.
How to apply the mixin to this class?
To apply the mixin,
we can use object assign and where is.
First we need to pass the object
where we going to apply the mixin.
And initially you think that
we want to apply To the class.
But that's not the case.
I'm not sure, do you know what the type
of a class is in in JavaScript?
>> Speaker 1: Function?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It's a function,
correct.
So a class is actually a function,
and which it's weird,
yeah, but this is for historical reasons.
If I'm doing this,
I'm going to add the mixin to
the function that constructs
the object of the class.
That's not what I want.
So I wanna change the prototype.
And again,
we don't have enough time today to explain
prototyping in JavaScript,
but actually this will add
the mixin behavior to all
the instances of the class.
Now, by the way, we know there is only
one instance in this example, but anyway,
because it's a Singleton.
And I'm going to apply the observerMixin.
What's the problem?
My observerMixin is written
in a different module, right?
The problem is that that
mixin should be exported.
So I need to export the mixin, if not,
I won't be able to use it from
the other model, okay, makes sense?
And now that I exported it,
I need to import the observerMixin.
So if you ask the ID todo that, so
I select this from the order complete.
It's adding me the import, but there is
a big problem with VS code and vanilla
JavaScript projects, if you execute this,
we will get a 404 HTTP error.
>> Speaker 2: Because it
doesn't have the file type.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Because
it doesn't contain the extension.
It says, load this from mixin,
but it's actually mixing.js.
When we're doing vanilla
JavaScript projects, client-side,
it's the browser making HTTP requests.
The browser needs to have
the full qualified URL.
And the problem is that we're
used to Babel, TypeScript, and
other builders that helps us with that.
And then we don't need to use.js
when we are using those builders.
And of course, they transpile our code,
and they will finally add the .js, okay?
But VS code by default, it's kind of
thinking that we will use Babel or
any other builder, so
it's not adding the .js.
So be careful with that.
Okay, so
we need to import this from ./mixin.js,
so now we can actually apply and
it will work, okay.
And this is then applying
the observerMixin
to the,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
now my TodoList will also have
the methods of the mixin,
notify, add observer, remove observer.
Automagically, we injected that behavior
and also the set for the observers.